I am conducting a pre-project survey.
This is what I call a project.
I am investigating the current situation.
Suppose I learned that tomorrow
one of the managers will have a
state when he must start work,
drawing up a package of
documents for the opening of
the project.
I am preparing this event so
that it will be successful.
Once again, say, at home or
late at night, looked at individual
details of working with the tool.
I was prepared to
focus on success.
I come in the morning and start this event.
That is, I take the task that
this ordinary employee-manager
must perform, fix that it was
in this state, zero, and
fix the time that is needed
to make a full package
of documents for the project
to open.
As I have prepared for this and
understand the tool, I know where
the patterns lie, where the works.
That is, in principle, this
tool is not used in a vacuum,
but it is used in combination
with some system, with service
processes, and so on.
Naturally, there must be
accompanying processes that
increase the productivity
of these managers.
We will talk about project
management later.
I start working, while fixing
the start time.
All the people in this group
see how I work.
I am set to complete the whole
process in 4 hours.
Within 4 hours, I send my result
according to the standard scheme of
document coordination.
It is also recorded, let's
say, in the project management
position.
And there in this scheme you need to
go through coordination with
all responsible persons, for example,
the chief technician, chief
accountant, lawyer, and so on.
That is, the quality of my work I
have to check by the results of the
agreement procedure.
And if we, for example, have
this procedure prescribed in the project
management position and it
takes 2 days, then I tell my
colleagues that in 2 days we will
open the coordination base and
see the outcome of my work.
After 2 days I return to this group,
open this coordination base
publicly in the presence of employees.
Since I initially planned
everything in such a way that
I could really the goal of this
sub-project, this event,
I see the corresponding
results there.
That is, the procedure of coordination
passed, with small comments, but
the general conclusion of this tool,
which is usually illuminated
on the screen or resolution,
is executed.
Thus, I publicly record that in 4 hours
I developed a package of documents
for the opening of the project.
At the same time, I clearly fix and
tell employees that this function
is not really mine.
I am a manager of another level and
I have a different function, coordinating
other processes, managing
other processes, and so on.
And I don't have to be a guru
in this tool, in this function.
And these managers, they position
themselves as professionals.
The time I spent with
him was 4 hours.
Suppose we have an internal
dispersion among this type
of projects, yet there
are more complex ones.
Or, let's say, the person,
the manager there some internal
force majeure circumstances and so on.
We take this time, 4 hours
multiplied by 2 and record
that the given volume of work,
this work should be completed
in no more than 8 hours.
Thus, we record the labor
costs for this work, 8 people
hours.
If it is a job in which I do not understand,
in which I am not a specialist,
I can organize an event
like this in the following way.
I attract a resource that
understands this work and
is able to publicly
demonstrate how it
does the work.
And in my typical mode, I invite
this specialist either from
another unit or from another
department, or I can invite
a specialist from another
organization.
We organize a workplace in this group
so that they see everything as and what
is happening.
At the same time we adjust or,
as we say, improve skills, train staff.
However, in the free mode, without
stress, a person in comfort
performs this job.
We record the time of its execution.
Thus we get away from the negative
properties of the tool that we
used to use earlier, from the photo
of the day.
More constructive is the
productivity of work.
There are other technologies
for productivity measurement.
We will not stop at them.
Go to the next column.
Cost or cost.
For the management of the enterprise,
for the relevant top managers,
an important question in project
planning is the estimation of the
project budget by cost.
Therefore, we develop structural
decomposition of works in such a
way that the cost column, first
of all, was an estimate of
the cost of the works, tasks, activities
that we perform in the project.
If we are talking about the
supply of hardware or software,
the supply of materials, then here
we can put the value of the delivery
contract or the numbers from
the invoices.
Why is it?
Because this is the amount,
this estimate is for us a cost
of cost.
If we are talking about
estimating the cost of the work
that our employees perform, we can
also assess it professionally.
This is, of course, the experience and
knowledge of professionals,
accountants, economists.
The cost of the resource is used
in this assessment.
For example, we had work costs,
six people alone, and this work
was done by a certain resource,
a certain person who occupies
a certain position.
We estimate the cost of this resource,
that is, how much a person's
hour of the resource costs.
Moreover, these figures,
an estimate of the cost of the resource,
they are not usually confidential.
The cost of labor resource, it
consists of wages, plus the
cost of infrastructure that
provides the work of
the employee.
Moreover, as a rule, the cost of
infrastructure providing the
work of the employee, it dominates
significantly over the
cost of wages or over the
size of wages or salary
fund.
Moreover, the ratio between
the cost of infrastructure providing
the work of the employee and
his salary changes in the direction
of increases when the transition
from a lower hierarchical
level to a higher.
For example, for the general director,
this ratio can be very large,
say, 20 to 1, and for a regular
slug or technician, it can
be a ratio of 2 to 1 or even
1 to 1.
In any case, we understand that when
assessing the cost of a resource,
we must first of all carefully
and professionally assess the cost
of the infrastructure that
provides the operation of
the resource.
This is a separate topic for conversation
and assessment, but let's limit ourselves
to taking these assessments from professionals
who carefully, professionally
calculate these values.
Suppose the cost of this resource
is equal to 1,000 rubles per
person hour.
Then, if a person spent 10 people
hours, then the cost of this
work will be 10 thousand rubles.
We understand that different resources,
different people, they will have different
costs in the project.
Labor resources are usually divided
by categories and their cost is
calculated on average.
Suppose the category
of engineers-installers,
software engineers, middle-
level managers, top managers
for each category determines
the cost of the resource.
This is all included in the financial
and economic accounting subsystem.
If we have a working project management
system and a tool, for example,
the same Primovera, then we must,
by connecting Primovera with
the financial and economic accounting
system, obtain this information
and count the cost of work, the
performance of tasks, activities
in such a way that we have
all these figures correspond
to reality and they
have been verified
at a professional level.
The next column of structural
decomposition of works is the labor
resources or human resources.
And it is filled in such a way that
we preserve the principle of unity
and preserve the principle or follow
the principle of creating a stable
configuration, a reliable configuration,
that is, minimize the
risks of failures in performing
a particular job, solving
a particular task.
In the first place among
the list of labor resources
must be fixed responsible
performer, and then the perpetrators
go on, let's say, as their
responsibility falls, and
never one work can have two
responsible perpetrators.
In cases where we have two responsible
executives at one job,
we put the source of future
conflicts in such a situation,
which in the people
are called management
football.
That is, let's say that we have
a job and it has two
responsible executives.
Project management is usually
aimed at ensuring that in case
of problems in the execution
of work, the solution of a task,
we, managers, solve this
problem positively.
Here in the work there is a problem and
the manager is involved in this problem,
and here two responsible executives.
We start to deal with one.
He says it's not me, it's the grass.
I start to deal with Grishka, and
he says it's a mouse.
This is typical management
football.
Conflict has arisen.
A confusing situation arose.
And this situation arose because
we do not know one of the basic
axioms of management.
Get away from ambiguity.
In this case, we should
actually appoint a responsible
executor.
On the other hand, if the work is important
and very meaningful, we should pay particular
attention to the sustainability of
the implementation of this work.
That is, if, let's say, we have
one responsible performer and he
got sick, or urgently went somewhere,
let's say, on a vacation or a business
trip or on a vacation, and
so on, we have to have another
responsible performer at work.
And here is what I said, when
we build performers on a given
job according to the rating
of responsibility, then in the
absence of this responsible performer,
his function should
be automatically absorbed
by the next person, who
is in the list of performers
on this job, on this task.
If we have this principle
preserved when setting up the
system, if this principle is fixed
in the regulations on project management,
say, in the position on project management,
then all these conflicts, the solution
of these problems can be delegated
to the system of technology.
From the point of view of management,
these problems are routine, and we
should not load the project
manager, the project manager,
with such small questions.
That is, our system, the same Microsoft
Project Server, can be configured
in such a way that in case of a request
for information from the responsible
executive and after the end of,
say, an hour, if we have it prescribed
in the position on project management,
the senior management did
not receive a response to this
request, the next responsible
executive is automatically
asked, and the situation is
fixed in such a way that
the work never left without
the responsible executive.
It can also be algorithmized and transformed
into a technology chain,
giving this process to
technology and tool.
That is, if we had only three
people responsible for the work,
and all of them are currently unavailable,
all three resources
are unavailable, immediately
this situation becomes a responsible
manager, say, the
project administrator.
That is, information about such
a situation by the system is provided to
the responsible executor for the entire block
to the higher level.
Here are about what basic
principles we use when compiling
the column, labor resources
or human resources.
The next column is the priority of
the task or task.
Priority of task, priority of work is an
important parameter in the management
of the subject area of the project.
This parameter is used when allocating
resources to a task, to a project,
when solving problems related
to conflict of resources, resource
overload, when solving problems
related to conditions of tough
competition, struggle within
the project for resources in conditions
of limited resources.
The higher the priority of the
task or work, the more resources
are provided for this task or work.
We will touch a little further on the
role of priorities and tasks.
We have partly considered the role
of project priorities when we talked
about project portfolios.
In general, structural decomposition
in this form is often used in practice.
Almost all project management
tools use structural
decomposition of
work in this form.
In this table, one of the most
significant or time-intensive
columns is the third column, namely
the number of the previous work
or task.
At first glance, it seems that it is
very simple, but if you approach
more carefully, if you analyze the successfully
completed projects, complex complex
projects, then we will see that
this column is one of the defining
structural decomposition
of work.
This column defines the logic
of the work in the project.
It defines the overall design of the
management process of project management.
This column depends on the project
time, budget, and many
parameters.
Experienced managers of enterprises
to assess the level
of professional manager first of all
turn to this column in the analysis
of structural decomposition of work.
Priority of tasks, priority of work
is an important parameter in
the management of the project area.
This parameter is used when allocating
resources to the task, work.
It is used in solving problems
related to conflicts of resources.
It is used to solve problems
related to the fact that we work
in conditions of strict
resource limitation.
And it is clear that the higher the
priority of the task or work, the
greater the amount of resources
provided for this work or task.
We have already partially considered the
priority of projects when we talked about the
portfolio of projects.
And we will briefly touch on
priorities and priorities of work.
In this form, as you can see in
this slide, structural
decomposition of works is
used in almost all project
management tools.
In this table, the most significant
is the point that is very difficult
to correctly compile the
data in the third column.
The third column, the number of
the previous work, the
prior task, is one of the most important
in the structural decomposition
of the work.
From this column depends the
logic of the project.
Here we can see how we managed
to professionally accompany, to
coordinate work with each other.
How we were able to solve logical
problems associated
with simultaneous execution of
several parallel works at once.
This column generally defines the duration
of the project, the cost and allocation
of resources.
It affects and affects almost
all aspects of project
management.
An experienced manager of the enterprise
to assess the level of professionalism of
the manager first and foremost in the
analysis of structural decomposition
of works pays attention to this column.
If the number of works is used
rarely in this column, this
is a sign that the parallel
of work in the project is very low.
This suggests that the power of professionalism
of the one who made up
such structural decomposition
of works is low.
On the other hand, if we see
in this column the absence of
a number, except the number
of the last work, it indicates
that this work is not a precursor
to any of the work of
the project.
In fact, she is not needed.
And then an experienced manager
simply has the right to cut off this work.
On the other hand, if we see that
some works start without a predecessor,
except for the first work,
then we understand that this means
that there is a significant
portion of chaos in the project.
This is because this
work came from nowhere.
And then an experienced manager also has
the right to remove this job from the
list of jobs.
If we take the column
"Cost of work", summarize
it all, then at the output
we get the project budget by cost.
It is clear that this column can
be read in different versions.
For internal use, the structural
decomposition of works is prepared
in such a way that, first of all,
it really provides the internal
information that is necessary for
the management of the project
in the given organization.
And from this point of view, of
course, the structural decomposition
of works is presented in this column by cost.
If we use this table for external
organizations, then in this
column we must take into account
administrative costs,
on-board costs or, as they
say, take into account
the margin factor.
And then this column has a different
look.
In addition, there are different
representations of the structural
decomposition of works in terms of the
estimation of the cost, and all this
depends on the consumer of this
table of this document.
If you take the length of the
task or work, then simply
summarizing the data
in the column will not answer
the question, but how
long will the project take.
This is one of the central issues that
interests, first of all, the management
of the company.
And it is understandable why we cannot
answer this question by simply summarizing
the data in the length of
the task column.
Because we are dealing with
a project, project activity.
We again recall the definition of a
project, an event carried out within the
framework of limited resources.
This means that we do not use
the method of consistent
planning in virtually
any project, as I said.
This method usually leads to the
fact that we have a very long
project duration.
This is not usually done by any
organization manager.
And if we give him an estimate of the duration
of the project in this form, of course,
immediately followed by a clarification
or a request to re-examine the duration
and compress it as much as possible.
Thus, we understand that
in project activities we
always use parallel work.
We plan to perform the work in such
a way as to parallel them to the
maximum and to shorten the total
time of the project.
This means that before we assess
the overall duration of
the project, we must
clearly structure the logic
of the task and work.
That is, we must clearly identify the
data for the third column, namely
by the numbers of the previous works.
In combination, the third column
and the length column, this combination
leads to the fact that we can build
a network model of the project,
make a calendar
and network schedule.
And only after we make a calendar
and network schedule, we
can answer one of the central
questions of project management,
what is the duration of this
project.
We will return to this when
we consider the functional area
of project management by
time parameters.
In general, if you consider
the structural decomposition of
works for complex complex projects,
then in practice it turns out
that the number of works
present in this table can
reach several thousand.
Sometimes even 20,000.
I had several projects that
had about 30,000 tasks on
the list.
It is clear that in such a situation it
is not very easy to make the structural
decomposition of the work itself.
And most importantly, it is not
very easy to manage this document.
After all, we must remember another
fundamental axiom of
management that says the following.
A managed document is a document
that is visible.
In other words, a visible
document, a managed document.
And this axiom is based on some psychological
aspects of the perception of
information by a person.
A person is hard or almost not
perceive information presented
in the form of tables with a
size of more than 20 to 20.
That is, if we provide
information in the form of a
table, and that table
has more than 20 columns, let's
say 50.
And the number of lines is more than 20,
let's say, 1000.
The person cannot adequately
perceive, analyze and work
with this information presented
in this form.
It is clear that in order
for information to be more effectively
accessible to the recipient, so that
it is adequately perceived,
we must somehow either crush it,
or ultimately still present it
in the form of tables.
If we decide that we will give it
in the form of tables, the
size of these tables should not
exceed 20 by 20.
From this it is clear that we should
group the work that we have noted
in this table into separate blocks.
And these groupings of works
are always present in real projects,
in real structural decompositions
of works.
And many tools are configured
in such a way that they allow
the person working from
this table to see if a
task or work has been
decomposed into components.
Is this work a separate
block or is it a separate
work of a lower level?
And this information is usually displayed
in one of the columns of the
table, and there we see a sign, a
plus or a minus icon.
If the plus icon is worth,
this work is decomposed
and it is a block.
This decomposition can have
several levels.
That is, we can break down
the top level, say, 20 blocks.
Then each block is decomposed
to the next level, 20 sub blocks.
Each block we decompose to
the next level, also by 20,
by 15 and so on.
In structural decompositions of works
on large projects we can observe
7, 8, and sometimes 9 levels
of investment.
Thus, we see that in the real
conditions of use of structural
decomposition of works we must
use levels of invested up
to the point that every time we
look at this table, there are
no more than 20 lines, 20 works
in front of our eyes.
So that they can really
be viewed, analyzed.
On the scale of the entire enterprise,
the structural decomposition of
works looks like the list of
projects in the portfolio.
Or if projects in the portfolio of
the enterprise are many, then we introduce
additional sections or blocks by
portfolios.
As I said before, for example, we
block projects in a portfolio by
character of organizational
affiliation or according to the
organizational structure.
That is, let's say, if we are talking about
the portfolio of the holding, then we
divide it into departments corresponding
to subsidiaries, organizations that
are part of this holding.
And in any case, structuring is
done so that it is easy and convenient
to perceive and analyze
information.
In almost all instruments and in
many methodological
recommendations, the structural
decomposition of works is
in chronological sequence.
This sequence is convenient for the project
manager, convenient for the main
part of the project team members.
But if you look carefully at the entire
pool of users of this tool,
then we will see that some groups
of users of this tool, these
documents, do not adequately
perceive the information
that is presented in the structural
decomposition of works
with a breakdown in chronology.
First of all, these are the
heads of functional units or
the heads of resource-containing
units, as we call them
otherwise.
In matrix structures, we said
that in modern Russia, almost all
enterprises can be characterized
by matrix organizational structure,
but such groups of resources,
such as managers of functional
units, do not perceive the
information presented in the
standard form, in which
they have work on chronology,
and this information is
difficult to perceive by them.
In practice, I have often encountered
the fact that it is the heads
of structural units, functional
units, that are categorically
against the use of such
a tool.
Analysing the reason why these
people are negative about these
technologies, this
tool, we come to a simple
elementary conclusion.
It turns out, if it is a complex
complex project, if in this project
20 thousand works, then any head
of a separate functional unit,
looking at such a structural
decomposition of works,
he after some time, after
a minute or two finally begins
to express his opinion
that he does not understand anything
in this table, and he has the goal
or he needs this information
to determine what works
relate directly to his department,
what people participate
in this project from his
department, what
work they perform, how
much they are loaded.
And here, understanding these reasons,
we come to the conclusion that for
this pool of consumers we should
make a structural decomposition
of works not by chronology,
but by functional attachment.
From this point of view, of course,
the structure is going differently.
And here we can hardly talk
about, say, some hierarchical
distribution of works, and
here the structuring is
based on the functional units.
Although sometimes in Russian-language
literature we see that VBS is
translated as a hierarchical structure
of works.
Well, the experience of using
this tool shows that it is more
correct to translate VBS into
Russian as SDR – structural
decomposition of works.
So, we conclude that the information
presented in the structural
decomposition of works can
be given in different forms.
And above all, we understand
that yes, we can give this information
in a chronological range,
but we can give this information
in a functional range,
or in the range of resources
to a pool, a division,
a department, and
so on.
And in real-world project management
systems, of course, we must be
able to present structural
decomposition of works
in the form that is most
convenient for different types
of consumers.
Here on the next slide you can see an
example of a representation of
the structural decomposition of works
in the Microsoft Project tool.
This is a fragment of a real project,
and you can see that the structure is
roughly the same as the one
we considered in the previous table.
Yes, there may be additional
columns, there may be additional
information.
Often, special coding of works
numbers is used in such a way
that it can then be easily made
a sample for individual types
of works and so on.
If we talk about the use of the SDR
by different roles by the members
of the project team, we understand
that according to these roles, according
to the functions that the individual
member of the team performs,
we must customize the appearance
of this table in such a way that, first,
it is possible to present all
the information that is necessary
to perform these functions, and
secondly, that this representation
is convenient for analysis
and work with it.
From this we come to the conclusion
that in various automated workplaces
or abbreviated arms we use different
types and different settings
of structural decomposition
of works.
Now we move to the next section,
to the next functional
area - project management
by time parameters.
This is a very important section, and
it also plays a leading role in the
project management process.
Project management by time parameters
depends methodically and technologically
on the type of project
we deal with.
As well as the process and
technology of project management
in general depends on what project
by scale, by functional
accessory, what project comes
out after the project classifier.
We said that depending on the type
of project we use different methods,
technologies and tools.
We must understand this.
When we now look at the functional
areas of project management,
we mean that we are working
on a complex, complex project,
as I have noted earlier.
When considering the functional
area of project management by
time parameters, we will also assume
that we are dealing with a complex
large-scale project.
Thus, the start of project management
on time parameters essentially
begins with determining what
methods, technologies,
tools we will use in
planning the organization
and executing the project
on time parameters.
Naturally, in the early stages or in
the early stages of the project life
cycle, we evaluate the overall
project management strategy over time.
We choose the most optimal
tool for project management
by time parameters.
At the stage of choosing the ways of
implementation of the project,
we first assess the overall duration
of the project.
And if we prioritize minimizing
the time of the project,
then we choose the path
that allows it to be done.
After choosing this path, we begin
to plan the composition of the work,
the logic of the relationship of the
work, the processes, tasks and work
that go parallel in such a way as to
reduce the time of the project, if
we have a priority is this goal
to perform the project in the
shortest possible time.
Here, planning is also going
by iteration methods, that is, we first
held the first round, a list
of tasks was made, a list of works
was decomposed, we looked at what
we need resources to implement
these works.
We then compare with our real
resources allocation capabilities
and it is these real resources
allocation capabilities that dictate
to us then whether we can perform
this project at the given time
in this version of the logic,
in this version of parallel
work.
After that, naturally, we will have
corrections on the time parameters
and we will make them, and the corrections
go to the point that we analyze
the quality of allocated resources,
the productivity of work.
If we consider the results of the
projects performed, complex, complex,
we will see that the duration of the
project is primarily negatively
affected by the re-evaluation of
the quality of resources.
Let us remember the main definition
of the project.
A project is an event carried
out within the framework of limited resources.
And we usually have the
situation unfolding in such a way that
we work in a matrix structure.
Resources are limited, including in
the matrix structure, and the matrix
structure has negative fundamental
properties.
Allocation of resources, project
activities on the residual
principle, such as such
a fundamental negative property.
And from here we understand
that the managers of resource-
containing units allocate resources
to the project and quality, including
residual principle.
That is, in fact, they tell the
project management that the resource
is quality-appropriate and will perform
the project with your requirements.
But then it turns out that we
received the resource in the project
not quite the quality that
the head of the resource-containing
unit declared to us.
It turns out that this resource
has lower labor productivity,
quality corresponding and
so on.
As a result, we get a lengthy execution
of the task or task.
As a result, we are breaking the scheduled deadlines.
Here are some aspects of planning
project management by time.
In general, it is clear that
we must carefully calculate
the duration of each work.
Naturally, this duration, as we
have already noted earlier,
is determined by the functional
set of tasks that we will
perform.
Technological requirements,
technical limitations, and of
course, limitations on
the productivity of labor,
on the productivity of the
process involved in this
work.
When planning work on time, we perform
several iterations, as a result
of which we get the so-called
approach to optimize the
project on time.
That is, we use different technologies
so that with the maximum compression
of the project in time we
can successfully the project
goal.
We must get a product or service
out of the product that will be
viable, self-consistent, and that
service, that product, that final
product will then be demanded
by the user in the way he expected.
And here we must carefully
track whether we have really achieved
the project's goals as planned.
We understand that by reducing
time we may lose some quality
parameters or we may reduce project
execution time at the expense
of some product or service
features.
We can reduce the time, while we can
change the project budget itself.
As a rule, in most projects,
where it is about reducing
the time of the project,
we are forced to
add resources, production
capacities.
Instead of, say, one brigade, we are
forced to put two or three brigades
on this object, and then the time
of planned work, for which
additional resources are attracted,
is reduced.
In general, if we look at some changes
in the project management process
over time, we see that any of
these changes, one way or another,
directly or indirectly, affect
other functional areas
of project management.
Similar to the situation we considered
in the case of project
management in the subject area.
Here the same philosophy works,
and we must remember that.
So, we evaluated the duration
of the work, we determined the
logic of the relationship of the
work, the logic of the work, we iteratively
clarified and optimized
these processes by logical connection,
by the duration of the work.
After that, we fix our scheme in
the form of a working schedule.
Sometimes this chart is called
a calendar-network chart, and indeed
this chart most often resembles
a grid in the form of a network.
He is depicted.
Why is it?
Because we have project
activities, and we perform
work in parallel
processes, parallel actions.
If we had only a consistent
methodology used in
project management,
it would be linear planning.
In linear consecutive, one-
dimensional planning, in fact, the
load on management is absent.
That is, if the head of the
organization sees in the third
column of structural decomposition
of the work, in essence, the first column
with a shift to one position, as we
have already noted, if he sees that
there is only consistent
planning, then it is clear that this
is a sign of the complete non-professionalism
of the manager, and that a method
is applied here that is not
typical for project activities.
It is more typical for
individual linear operations,
for linear planning, for
linear production chains.
This specificity clearly enters into
the planning of the organization and
the execution of the project on time parameters.
We always face problems,
such as those characteristic
of performing several
parallel actions,
several parallel
tasks.
Before we make a calendar
and network planning, we
make a network model.
Now we will briefly examine
some principles of time planning
and principles of network model,
on the basis of which the calendar
and network schedule
is then developed.
Let us go back to the main phases
of project management.
So, if we follow the general
strategic line, we also have the stage
of initiation, the stage of planning,
the stage of organization control,
the execution of the project on time
parameters, the stage of analysis
and regulation and the stage
of completion.
The analysis and regulation stage is very
important.
As a result of the project, we face various
circumstances that are not taken
into account in the planning documents,
which are not taken into account
in the development of the documents
for the opening of the project.
It is clear that all these circumstances
cannot be taken into account in reality.
And in principle, it is
a project that we always
face some problems, some
uncertainty, some new
elements.
And hence it is clear that in the course
of the project implementation we will have
factors that affect the duration of the
performance of certain tasks.
And accordingly, we must react
in such a way that in the end, the
project was still successfully completed
and we did not break the overall
scheduled timing of the project.
Here, this is the subprocess, or
more precisely the stage of the
general process of project management
by time parameters, analysis
and regulation.
That is, we are analyzing the deviation
of planned figures from actual ones, as
we have already considered this technology.
We then develop an event to remove
the deviations, implement these
activities, respond to these
deviations and bring the
project into planned implementation.
And the completion procedures are
roughly the same.
We summarize the results of
project management on time parameters.
We look at the strengths and weaknesses,
analyze them and offer recommendations
so that in the future, when
implementing similar projects or
projects in related areas, we
do not repeat the weaknesses,
do not repeat mistakes or,
as we say, do not attack the
same grabbles.
So, let's briefly consider
how we work in general when
planning timing and
managing a project by timing.
In one of the first sections of this
course we said that we approach the
project as a single whole and that
we use a process approach and that
at the entrance of the project we
put a single goal setting, and
at the output we get a result
that is also one, self-consistent
and viable.
As for project management by
time parameters, we usually
approach here using
the technology called
the Homax technology.
This slide shows a project presentation
in the form of a Homax, and this presentation
describes the top level of the
project decomposition into
the most common task blocks.
These task blocks are depicted
in the form of parallel
rectangles and in general
in the graphic reflection of
work and tasks parallel rectangles are used.
If we have important work
or events in the project,
but the duration of which
may be low or near zero,
such work is called
milestones.
In English milestone or in
Russian kilometre stone, kilometre
pillar in project management
we use the term milestone.
The corner is depicted in the form of a rombo.
As a rule, this important
event, significant event or some
result of work is reflected on
the schedule, this is a milestone,
a rombic.
For example, we hold a meeting
and a meeting may last
a certain time.
At the end of this meeting we
have some result, namely a protocol,
and we record at what time
we get this result of this
work.
In general, if you consider
the structure of the project at
the top level, it can really be
depicted as a hamac.
This is very convenient and we immediately
see what the main processes
that are parallel to the
project are.
Then we can go to a more detailed
structured analysis of each
parallel task, to the decomposition
of this task or task block,
to individual tasks, sub-
tasks, individual work.
And so we can already schedule
each branch separately until
separate works.
We determine the duration of
each work, and if we now take
for each parallel branch, we
summarize the time of work.
Naturally, we are building
these works according to
the logic that we have reflected
in the third column of the SDR.
We determine the maximum duration
of the work included in the
particular branch of the hamac.
Thus, as we go through all the branches,
we determine the duration
of these parallel-going blocks
of tasks, parallel-going work,
we summarize this duration
for each branch.
And then we rank these total lengths,
that is, we find the shortest
length, the largest and the
longest branch.
These are the works that
are on the branch with the
longest duration, we call
critical works or work that
is on the critical
path.
The critical path is the path,
the duration of the work,
on which the sum is the maximum.
The total duration of work on
the critical path and will be equal
to the time of the project.
One of the key questions
of the project can be
answered as follows.
The duration of the project
is equal to the duration of work
on the critical path,
i.e. the total duration of
work on the critical path.
Naturally, we can only determine
this duration after first determining
the overall structure
of the project, what the
project model, then what
the network model.
After that, we determine the
critical path in the network model
or in the network chart, and only
then can we answer the question
of what the project duration is.
In project activities,
different terms are used
related to project management
by time.
One of the basic terms is network
model.
The network model describes the overall structure
of the organization of the tasks and
work blocks in the project.
After we have already detailed
the relationship between
the works, sequence and this
network model, we build a so-
called network chart.
After building a network chart and once
again clearly defining the duration and logic
of the relationship, building all the
logical connections, usually on
the charts, on the charts they are
depicted with lines that connect
the rectangles of the task or work
and the rombics into landmarks.
Then we attach our network
chart to the calendar, specific
dates.
Each work has a calendar
of start and finish time.
Then we get a calendar
network schedule.
This way you can approximately
understand how the network model relates
to the network chart and the
calendar network chart.
When we go to a more detailed
look at each of the branches
of the gamac, to a detailed
model and then a network
chart, we can use different
technologies, different
concepts.
The following slide is an example
of the preceding diagram.
On this chart, the work is constructed
in such a way that it is performed in
time, chronologically, from left to
right.
And logical relationships here are
depicted in straight lines with arrowlights.
In some situations, one work can
absorb the result of a
previous one work, and in some
situations, that work can
absorb the result of
several previous works.
This is seen in the diagram.
In addition, a chart is often
used, as you can see in
the following slide, the so-called
arrow chart.
Here works are depicted with letters, arrows,
and the nodes of communication between
works are circles.
Also the chronology or vector of
time here is located from left to
right.
If we consider the logic of the
relationship between two separate works,
we will see that there are four possible
options.
As you can see from the next slide,
we can establish four logical
relationships between two works,
namely the relationship finish-start
or end-beginning, finish-
finish, end-
end-start or beginning-beginning,
and start-finish, beginning-end.
These types of connections are used
when working with different
graphic tools, with tools that
we have briefly considered,
with the same Microsoft Project,
Primovera, Spyder and
others.
Many of these tools have a separate
parameter, which is called the
type of connection.
It is quite convenient and
clear, we can unambiguously
use this parameter to link
two or more separate works.
Interestingly, in many tools
with this parameter, the type of
communication is also used
as a delay or time lag
parameter.
It is a very interesting parameter
and can also be used to improve
the efficiency of time
planning and project management
by time parameters.
Often we have work going one after
another, but with some
delay then we mark this parameter
with a plus sign.
Let's say we need to start the next
work after the previous one is
finished two days later.
We put this parameter plus two
if we have days in measurement
units.
It is interesting to consider a
situation when this parameter is a
minus sign, for example, minus two
days, this means that the delay
is negative or, in other
words, we can graphically represent
the advance.
If we have a lag delay option
minus two days, it means that the work
begins after the completion of
the previous one with two days
ahead of the date of completion
of the previous work.
That is, in such a situation, we have
a logic of communication
of work consistent, but work
can be performed in part, and sometimes
completely, in parallel.
The procedure for using this
lag parameter with a minus
sign is usually used in
so-called time parameter management
optimization situations.
That is, when consecutive
planning, we can quite significantly
reduce the total time of the
chain of tasks or works, using
this parameter lag with a
minus sign.
If we use a lag with a minus
sign, we can actually significantly
reduce the time of a
task block or work chain,
but we must remember
another negative circumstance.
In any situation of optimization of
work by time with any use of the parameter
lag with the sign of minus, we
can have a conflict of resources,
that is, overload of resources.
When we shorten the time of a chain
of tasks or tasks so that
part of the work we do is done
in parallel, we see that the labor
resources, the people who do
those tasks, they can be
overloaded.
That is, there is a overlap of two
jobs in such a way that the same
people are forced to do both work,
and if they are loaded at 100% in
one of the jobs, under 100% load
we understand 8 hours of working
time during the current day,
then it is clear that when combining
two jobs this person can already
be overloaded.
If in the second work a person
is loaded by 50%, then
in total it will be that this
resource is loaded by 150%
in a particular area
that is overlaped by two works.
This is called a conflict
of resources, or overload of resources.
Experienced project manager,
project manager initially when
planning a project on time parameters
tries to avoid conflicts
of resources.
But if these conflicts have occurred,
then in principle any elimination
of the conflict of resources,
any elimination of the overload
of resources causes additional costs
of resources.
For example, if we have a workforce
that is overloaded by 150% in
two jobs, we can eliminate
this conflict of resources
by taking both jobs in
a time-spread way to remove
parallelity.
The conflict of resources is removed, but the
resource of time in such a situation is overused.
We can eliminate the conflict of resources
by another method.
We will take part of the work
or load from that employee to give to another
and clear the conflict.
But still as a result we come
to the over-consumption of
labor resources, because if in the
first case we have work done
by one person, then in the second
already two people.
We may in some specific way or
allow within the framework
of the procedures adopted in
the enterprise that allow
the use of so-called overtime
schedules or overtime work,
to announce or agree on
this point where the workforce
will be overloaded.
We can agree on this point with
his management, with him,
and agree that this overload
during the day, that a person
will work 4 hours more
than the quota, that is,
he can work 12 hours, but
we will pay him 4 hours as
overtime.
In any case, the conflict is cleared
here, but we still come to
the over-spending of resources,
that is, we will be forced to
spend extra money from the project
budget, that is, here the resource
is financial, it will be overloaded.
As for overtime work, here in different
enterprises are different
and overtime pay is also made
differently, for example,
in the Soviet Union overtime
work was usually paid in
double amount, then if a person
went out to work acceptable
on weekends or at night
worked and it turned
out that he worked overtime
some schedule, then the
payment was made in double
amount.
Now in many organizations this
payment is not in double, but
with a coefficient of 1 or 1.
2 and this is done in order
not to motivate employees
to work in the non-main time.
But this is a separate problem, we will
not go deeper into it.
So, we briefly looked at why
there are conflicts of resources
when managing a project over time
and some techniques to eliminate
these conflicts.
Along with one of the basic concepts
in the functional area
of time management, such as
the critical path, other basic
concepts are used, which
are very important when managing
a project by time parameters.
In the next slide you see a fragment
of the network chart.
Here are some of the work that is
being done in the project.
The top part depicts two works
that are part of the critical
path.
If we have a time reserve for work
that is in the critical path, then
this time reserve is included
in the so-called overall project
reserve.
In principle, it is understandable,
because it is the work that is
on the critical path that determines
the duration of the project in time.
And the reserves that work on
this path is included in the overall
project reserve by time.
That is, if we have work on a critical
path with, say, a reserve of 5 days,
then this is the total reserve of the
project time.
If we have a reserve of time for
work that is outside the critical
path, then, as a rule,
such a reserve is called
a free reserve.
And this reserve when changing it usually
does not affect the overall
duration of the project.
However, it should be remembered
that with increased reservation of
works that are not on the critical
path, we may come to a situation
where the total duration of work
on the branch outside the critical
path may exceed the duration
of work on the critical path.
And then we will actually get
that the critical path has shifted
from the previous option to the current
one.
This often happens when we either
re-plane a project, or when
we start a project, run it, and
start project tracking procedures
on time parameters.
If we have until now some work
that is outside the critical path,
have been significantly
delayed, extended, and so on, then
we will see that when passing
the present moment these work can
start, so that in the parameters
that have changed they
will lead to the fact that
the critical path will change
its localization.
That is, if it has been passed in
a certain way before this point, then
after passing this point we will see
that the critical path will
change its localization.
These are pretty important points,
and of course, project management
should be careful about changing
the position of the critical path.
We must understand that all the
work that is on the critical
path, they have a fundamental
impact on the time of execution
of the project, and we first of
all track them in such a way that
there is no delay in time.
As a rule, work on the critical path
is the first priority within the project,
and they are actually tracked
on the supply of resources,
on the implementation, on
the time priority.
If we consider in general how we
build a network model, we should
remember that we have a subject area
at the forefront of the project
management procedures, and
we should not forget that it is
the dominant in any project,
and the processes and works
that are refined are allocated
to project management,
the project management process
itself is service-related
to the basic processes that
implement the subject area.
The construction of a network model
begins with the construction of a network
model of work on the subject area.
The following slide is an example
of a network model.
Here, the green color highlights
the task blocks on the subject area,
and the fistish color highlights
the works that refine the
processes of project
management.
In principle, in any work,
in any task block, work block
on the subject area, there
are managerial labor costs.
This management is usually carried
out primarily by the responsible
executive.
Here I would like to make some such
a comment on how we implement project
management in such a way that
we have sustainability in the course
of the project execution, sustainability
in the project management
process as a whole.
Psychologists say that a person
is arranged in such a way that his psyche
gives sparring failures.
That is, periodically, the human
psyche fails in such a way that
we cannot clearly predict
these failures.
If we consider the process of project
management itself, it becomes clear
that we manage only when we can predict
the behavior of the individual,
the behavior of the members
of the project team.
If we can qualitatively predict
the behavior of the team members,
then we manage the situation.
If we can't predict the behavior
of the team members, then
we don't manage the situation
fully.
And then the manager becomes,
roughly speaking, a boy
on the bedside of the situation.
And if you consider project
management as a whole, then of course
the manager must manage the
project, and the manager also manages
the situation that develops
within or around the project.
The higher the professionalism
of the manager, the more he can manage
the situation in the project.
But we see that the human psyche will
fail sooner or later.
In practice, the experience
of many social groups, and even
our Russian proverbs, reflect that
the human psyche really gives
periodic failures.
As we sometimes say, I don't know what
happened, it was magic.
It is said that only the person
who does not work is not mistaken.
That is, any person who works,
he will sooner or later make
a mistake, make a mistake, and
so on.
It will be a sporadic failure.
And it is clear that in such a situation
we must consider very carefully
how to minimize the negative
consequences of mental failures.
And it is understandable that the
higher the human labor resource in the
hierarchical organizational structure
of the project, the more significant are the
consequences of the failure of the psyche
of this person.
That is, we should pay special attention
to insurance failures, more precisely
in the analysis of the negative
consequences of these failures
in each person.
First of all, those of our
team members who are
responsible for the work and
above all for important work.
We should pay special attention
to the top management in the
project team.
Thus, we understand that we must
apply some technologies,
tools to minimize the negative
consequences of these
failures.
Practice shows us that they
are usually minimized in such
a way that someone
insures a person working
in such a way that he or she looks
from the side, analyzes his
actions, or as they say helps
a person not to break
the wood.
In this situation, the proverb
is used, which says that
one head is good, and two is
better.
It is clear that if we are committed
to the project being performed
effectively with a minimum of labor
costs, with a minimum of risks, with
a minimum of overall costs, then
we should pay attention to these processes,
which minimize the negative
consequences of sporadic failures
of responsible executives,
executives, managers, managers.
Thus, we organize processes
that insure responsible
executives.
And these processes are primarily
controlled by the project management,
the project manager.
One of the main functions
of the project manager, it
is reduced to what we can
call control control.
That is, the current tactical
control of the performance of the
task or work is carried out by the
responsible executor, and additional
control, which minimizes the risks
associated with sporadic failures,
with errors, what we have said,
with the insurance of the
responsible executor, this function
is entrusted, first of all, to
the project manager.
And thus we in the network
model, in the network chart,
form refined work on project
management.
Works that are continuous
in nature and cover the
main composition of the
project life cycle in the
subject area.
In other words, we must organize
project management in such a way
that at any time, as we sometimes
say, in the middle of the night,
we raise the project manager
or one of the managers
responsible for one or another
area of management, and his head
must be sick about the project,
or, as we say, he must hold
his hand on the pulse of
that controlled process.
These works are presented separately.
For example, in this network model,
these are works that are continuous
in nature and cover almost
the entire life cycle
of the project in the
subject area.
This is control of the document of turnover
and reporting, control of changes,
control of risks.
This slide shows a network model
that operates with seven parameters.
This is called a
semiparametric network model.
In practice, we sometimes use an
eight-parameter model, another
parameter is added, it is missing
here, namely, near the work you
see a separate image of work with
seven parameters on the right.
Near the work is still fixed the number
of work, that is, the mathematical
value with which it is easier
to operate a computer or instrument.
There are seven main parameters.
This is the name of the work, duration,
time reserve.
Early beginning, early
end, late beginning, late end.
A network model of the project
is usually developed at the beginning
without a specific link to
the calendar schedule.
Coordinates are used in terms of
time, and are relative.
Once the network model is
already finalised,
several iterations will be
made to clarify.
Only then can we take the relative
coordinates of the network
model or network chart and attach
to a specific calendar.
Here it is seen that the first
work begins with a zero date, that
is, the relative coordinates
in time are taken for zero.
And then all the work already uses
relative to the first work,
relative to its start, time parameters,
which consist of the sum of duration
and the sum of reserves
by duration.
In accordance with the third column of
the network chart, that is, with
logic, we prescribe the second column
of the structural decomposition of works.
That is, we take a specific
work and then look at
who has its followers or who
has its predecessor.
And thus we build logical
relationships on the network model.
Well, by time we go through in such a
way that we summarize the
duration with the reservation and go
from the first work to the final one.
This approach is called the direct
passage method.
And if we take and move from the last
work to the first, and at the same time
we may not take into account the time
reserve, then we carry out the
so-called reverse passage.
When we go straight, we take
into account the time reserve, the
total time is summed up and we
get the maximum duration
of the project on the critical path.
This critical path is
marked by logical links
of red.
After the project is completed, we
can go back from the last work
to the first.
And so, if we have such parameters
as early beginning, early
end, then with the reverse
passage, when we deduct
the reserves of time, we
have parameters of
late end and later beginning.
After developing the network model
and network chart on the subject
area, we can impose on the entire
subject area works of
a continuous nature, which continuously
monitor the progress of
the project execution on the
subject area and these work,
as I said, we refined.
Although we understand that some
part of the work on project
management, it is contained
in separate blocks, in separate
tasks on the subject area.
Here are some basic principles for building
a network model of the project.
Naturally, if you want to study more
in detail the practical methods
of project management on time
parameters, then this is a problem
of another course.
Usually we have various courses
in the Russian market, including,
for example, specialized
courses on the preparation
of calendar and network
charts, network models
and so on.
You can find out more
in the literature attached
to this course.
In the literature list you can
find this information in more detail.
Now we will consider in general
what basic methods are
used in project management
by time parameters.
Here on the next slide you will see
a list of these time planning methods.
We have already met some of them,
let us briefly go through all
these methods again.
The consistent planning method.
It is clear what it is, we considered
it when we plan work that is
performed in succession
one after another.
Parallel planning is also
understandable when we work in parallel.
Method of stachastic planning.
This method is inherent in projects where
there is no clear and unambiguous fixation
of the start date and the completion
date of the work or task.
This is typical for projects such
as the construction of a temple.
Indeed, we cannot plan the
execution of certain work
clearly here, as we have
largely uncertainties
about the arrival
of funds, budgeting,
and so on.
And here we plan the project in time
in such a way that we do not strictly
record all the start and end
moments of all the work included
in the project.
Monthly planning method.
It is clear about what it is.
It was especially widespread
in the Soviet Union, when there
were concepts such as a monthly
plan, a monthly rate, a monthly
rate.
And in this situation, we planned
project activities precisely
in terms of time.
In some enterprises, this approach
still exists, although if
we look at this method, which
worked in the Soviet Union,
we see that it has significant
disadvantages.
The method of monthly planning
led to the fact that the main volume
of work in the project activity
or in the production
it fell on the final days
of the month.
And so there was planning
work that by the end of the month
we are obliged to the planned
indicators in any way.
And as a result we saw that with this
approach, the quality of products,
the quality of services, the
quality of design activities,
let's say, was not appropriate.
And even if we introduced five-year
quality and so on, this approach
was characterized by the concepts
of "import" or "foreign"
and "our domestic".
These terms were synonymous with
what we are talking about a quality
product or not very quality,
unfortunately.
The next method of planning, so-
called planning from the
mastered volume.
This method is based on the fact that
we clearly see the amount we have mastered.
And then, knowing what amount we
have mastered, we begin to plan either
completely extrapolating the situation,
or still making adjustments in such
a way that we can continue to perform
the project and the project performance,
completion of the project
within the planned indicators.
The Perd method.
We will stop at it in more detail now.
The next method
is calendar network planning
or Gantt chart.
We looked at an example of
a representation of structural
decomposition of work in the Microsoft
Project tool.
Here, on the next slide, we
have a fragment of the Gantt
chart in the same tool.
That is, we see that here on the left is
a part of the structural decomposition
of the works, and on the right is
a calendar-network chart, which is depicted
in the form of a chart, giving
the name of Gantt.
This is the same Henry Gunt, who is
one of the founders of Western
methods of project management
by swapers and we talked about at
the beginning of this course.
This type of presentation of works related
to the time scale, with the calendar,
with the composition of the works, it
is very convenient, very compact and visible.
I think Gante did
very well.
In fact, one can say, to embrace
immense.
On the one hand, it is possible to present the
calendar and network schedule very
carefully and clearly, and on the other
hand, the composition of the works, the
structural decomposition of the works.
Moreover, we can parallelly extract
the data and information
we need, and this already
represents different project
management tools.
The last method you see is
going back to the previous
slide again, it's a method
of planning from the end result.
We touched it in part when we considered
the reverse passage method
when considering the network model.
In general, a very interesting method
and the very fact that we take and
put ourselves in the end result,
the end product, it can already
clarify many questions and problems.
That is, we model the situation in
such a way that we move ourselves to
the point of the final outcome of the
project and thus have the opportunity
to consider the project from a
completely different side.
Thus we can consider the
end product or result in
such a way that we see what basic
conditions we need to make
the product, the end result,
viable, self-aligned and
self-developing or it can
be successfully exploited.
It is here that considering the
project from all sides, including
the end product or outcome,
allows us to consider more
factors affecting the project.
Pert is the method of Program
Evaluation and Review
Technique.
This method is also called a probability
method and is used when
we have a lot of uncertainty
in the project and
a significant part of the parameters
we can estimate only
based on probability
estimates.
Many of our PERT assessments
are default and we
use this method in
much of our planning
work, including
time planning.
And it consists in the fact that we
assess the most optimal conditions
for the implementation of the project,
consider, for example, the timing parameters
in the case of the optimal outcome of
the situation and the optimal performance
of work and tasks.
Next, we look at the most unsuccessful
or worst options for the implementation
of a project, task or work,
summarize the time for the worst
option and compare this time
with the time we get for the
best option.
There are several estimates, for
example, the duration of the project
by the PERT method, for example,
one of the most common estimates
is when we take and assign
the value of the duration parameter,
a time parameter, which we can
calculate based on the best
conditions, optimal conditions.
We attribute this value to
the unit weight factor.
Next, we attribute the unit
weighting to the
pessimistic implementation,
and the largest weighting,
say, 4, we attribute to
the most probability estimate
of duration.
Thus, we sum up all three estimates,
that is, the optimistic estimate,
the pessimistic and most
likely with the sum of the
weighting factors 6 and then
divide for normalization by 6,
as shown in this slide.
This is a typical situation that is being
implemented in Western Europe and in
Western business.
In Russia, if we analyze
the projects carried out and compile
statistics on the projects
carried out, then practice, experience
shows that the weighting factor,
for example, in the
pessimistic assessment is long.
In this situation, we still have
better to take not one, but a pair
and then normalize not at 6, but
at 7.
If we work with the use, say, of the
Microsoft Project tool, then when
you enter this tool there is a sub-
part in one of the menus, where
we are asked for the coefficients,
the weighting coefficients
of the PERT method.
By default, they are used there
in the exact sequence as presented
here on the slide.
1 to 4.